dfc/core-rules/launch-assets.md, before:

---
title: 'Launch Assets'
excerpt: 'Ships may carry smaller subordinate craft on board in the form of strike craft like Dropships, Fighters and Bombers or munitions - ship-killing Torpedoes and similar systems.'
position: 9
---

# Launch Assets

Ships may carry smaller subordinate craft on board in the form of strike craft like Dropships, Fighters and Bombers or munitions - ship-killing Torpedoes and similar systems. Collectively these are called **Launch Assets** in Dropfleet and they all operate using the same game rules. Launch Assets are represented by tokens on the tabletop - either flat counters or bases with teeny tiny models on them.

An individual Launch Asset token represents a flight of Fighters/Bombers or a group of Torpedoes. Standard sizes for Strike Craft and munitions markers are the 20mm x 20mm tokens supplied. Note that Dropships and Bulk Landers do not have tokens as they resolve instantly and do not spend any time on the table.

In the rules that follow all models that can deploy Launch Assets are referred to as ’carriers’. A carrier will most likely be a ship in practice, but it could be a ground- based airfield, orbital dock or other launch facility. In such cases these are still counted as  carriers  for rules purposes when it comes to Launch Assets.

## Carrier Characteristics

Each Carrier has characteristics for its Launch Capability. An example of which is below:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Load</th>
      <th>Launch</th>
      <th>Special</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Torpedoes</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Fighters &amp; Bombers</td>
      <td>6</td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

* **Load:** The type of launch assets the carrier can use. There may be a choice of different types but the carrier is still limited by its overall capacity and launch ability.
* **Launch:** How many tokens the carrier can launch in one turn.

## Launch Asset Characteristics

Launch Assets often  work similarly to a weapon profile, although some have their own unique rules. Some examples are shown below.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Type</th>
      <th>Thrust</th>
      <th>Lock</th>
      <th>Attack</th>
      <th>Damage</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>UCM Bomber</td>
      <td>12&quot;</td>
      <td>3+</td>
      <td>2</td>
      <td>1</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>UCM Torpedo</td>
      <td>9&quot;</td>
      <td>2+</td>
      <td>6</td>
      <td>1</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Type</th>
      <th>Thrust</th>
      <th>Point Defence Bonus</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>UCM Fighter</td>
      <td>20&quot;</td>
      <td>+3</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>UCM Dropship</td>
      <td>3&quot;</td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

* **Thrust:** The maximum distance it can travel to reach its target in a single phase.
* **Lock, Attack, Damage & Special:** All function identically to weapon system characteristics.
* **Point Defence Bonus:** Extra PD added to a ship these are used on.

## Launching Assets

Carriers have the opportunity to use their Launch Assets during the Roundup phase after Ground Combat has been resolved.

Use the same Initiative values determined in the Ground Combat segment. Use the same rules for determining them if you have not done so already.

Each turn players should complete each stage below in order of Initiative before moving onto the next phase.

This step is always resolved in the following order:

1. **Torpedoes**
1. **Bombers & Fire Ships**
1. **Fighters**
1. **Dropships & Bulk Landers**

The player with the lowest Initiative selects a Group with which to launch. They place all tokens they wish to launch from this Group next to the ship(s) or Sectors they are targeting.

Much like Close Action weapons, Launch Assets do not count against the number of weapon systems the ship may fire during a turn due to special orders, but likewise **if the carrier can’t fire for any reason it cannot use Launch Assets**.

Once the tokens are placed, the player with the next lowest Initiative may choose to launch those assets from a Group that has not launched yet this turn.

Repeat this until every player has launched that asset, then move onto the next asset type.

**A ship that launches any Launch Assets gains a Minor Spike**.

_Note: If you choose to activate a Ship Group it must launch something, you may not choose not to launch anything as a way to make your opponent reveal their plans!_

### Time To Target

Launch Assets have to travel to their target and may even have to spend some time hunting for it, space is big, they are small and their sensor gear is limited in comparison to that of a ship. The time to target depends on the range from the launching carrier to the target:

* If the target is **within the asset’s Thrust** it’s a quick sprint and the Launch Asset takes effect this turn.
* If the target is **more than its Thrust but within double its Thrust** a longer journey is necessary and there is a slight delay before the launch assets arrive. Place the launch assets in contact with the target’s base (or with each other if there is no more room left around the base), they will take effect at the end of the target’s activation in the next game turn. **Dropships and Bulk Landers cannot use this option, and must launch to a target within their Thrust**.

Note that Launch Assets can be used against targets that are outside the normal Scan + Signature range, simply measure a straight line between the launching ship and its target. If that line would take them through a Debris Field, they must test to see if they are destroyed. Roll once for each Launch Asset each time it moves through a Debris Field. A Fine Debris Field removes Launch Assets on a 3+ and a Dense Debris Field removes Launch Assets on a 5+.

### Launch Assets in Orbital Combat

Launch Assets are limited to operating in certain Orbital Layers. The configuration and design specifications required for operating in atmosphere are very different to those needed in high orbit. As such the following limitations apply:

* **Dropships:** May operate in Atmosphere only or Low Orbit if they are launching against a Space Station within 3".
* **Bulk Landers:** May operate in Atmosphere and Low Orbit only.
* **All other Launch Assets:** May operate in Low and High Orbit only. Other Launch Assets originating from surface-based carriers deploy into and operate in Low and High Orbit only.

If a ship with Launch Assets in contact with it enters Atmosphere, the Launch Assets are removed from play as they either burn up or return to their carrier.

## Launch Asset Effects

Once all the Groups containing Launch Assets have deployed their assets, you must then resolve their effects.

Firstly, place any ground tokens from Dropships and Bulk Landers. Next, starting with the player with the highest Initiative, select 1 enemy ship to resolve the effects of any tokens against it. Then the player with the next highest Initiative selects 1 enemy ship to resolve and so on until all the of the launch asset tokens have been resolved.

Launch assets generally function like a special kind of weapon system, but because of their unique properties there’s some special rules that apply to them.

The effects of a Launch Asset depend on its type and what it’s in contact with.

**Once a launch asset has taken effect the token is removed immediately**.

### Fighters

_Fighters are lightweight, agile craft intended as dedicated interceptors of opposing Strike Craft and Close Action weapons. Fighters serve an interceptor role for ships by flying in close support and improving a friendly unit’s Point Defence_.

Fighters lack the firepower necessary to make a dent on larger enemies so in Dropfleet they are limited to a purely defensive role.

Fighter tokens can take effect at various times throughout the game.

**Fighters may take effect from when they are placed onwards, even if launched using twice their thrust range**.

Fighters can be launched against friendly or enemy ships, and their rules change depending on their target:

**Friendly Ships:** Add bonus dice to their PD characteristic against a single attack from Launch Assets or Close Action weapons. The owning player must decide whether or not to expend the fighters against an attack once the damage is known but before PD dice are rolled. If the protected unit moves the fighter marker is moved with it.

Once the Fighter marker has taken effect it returns to its carrier and is removed from play. Any Fighters which have not taken effect by the following Roundup Phase are removed as they are forced to fly back and refuel.

_For example: 4 UCM Fighters are launched to protect a friendly target. The target gains +12 PD and the Fighters stay with it until the owning player chooses to use the Fighters to supplement its Point Defence against an attack from Launch Assets or Close Action weapons. The owning player can choose to add some, all or none of the escorting Fighter markers to its defence when attacked, gaining +3PD for each_.

**Enemy Ships:** Remove one enemy Fighter token from this ship (they keep each other occupied in dogfighting!) This may only be done when resolving launch asset effects (during the roundup phase) just before Bombers take effect.

### Bombers

_Bombers are Strike Craft that carry serious ship-killing weaponry, typically deploying a mixture of stand-off missiles and one-shot, high-intensity energy weapons_.

**Bombers make an attack with their profile when arriving at an enemy ship**.

When Bombers from multiple sources attack the same target they coordinate their run to overwhelm its Point Defence. Roll all of the Bomber’s attacks together when they take effect and treat it as a single attack versus the target’s Point Defence so the defender only rolls for  PD once for the ship instead of against each token’s attack separately.

_For example: 6 Bomber tokens launched from 2 carriers attack an enemy ship together. Each Bomber makes 2 attacks normally, but in this case they make a coordinated attack and roll all 12 attacks at once. The enemy ship’s Point Defence will only roll once against the massed attack instead of separately against each Bomber_.

### Fire Ships

Fire Ships are a unique type of bomber. They follow all the same rules, but are resolved separately. They also coordinate their attack.

### Dropships

_Dropships are transporters used for rapidly deploying armoured forces down to a planet’s surface. They are agile, well armoured and armed for their size to weather the storm of defensive fire they invariably attract_.

**Dropships may only be launched by carriers that are in Atmosphere or Low Orbit if targeting a Space Station**.

**Dropships may target Ground Sectors or Space Stations within their Thrust**.

When they do, they deliver one Armour or Infantry token to the Sector or Space Station.

### Bulk lander

_Bulk landers are large, lightly armoured landing craft used by troopships to deploy large numbers of ground troops or anti-ship weapon emplacements. Bulk Landers are considerably slower and more vulnerable than Dropships, as they are not designed for 1st wave assaults on entrenched positions, but rather as occupying or reinforcing troops once a beachhead is secured_.

**Bulk landers may only be launched by carriers that are in Low Orbit or Atmosphere**.

**Bulk Landers may target Ground Sectors or Space Stations within their Thrust**. When they do, they deliver three  Infantry tokens or one Defence Battery token to the Sector or Space Station.

### A Note on Dropships & Bulk Landers

Since there is no actual game time between the deployment and landing of the Dropship or Bulk Lander tokens there is no need to physically place them.

For speed of play and ease of use, most players will find it easier to declare where they are deploying troops, resolve any ground fire from Batteries and then directly place the Infantry or Armour tokens without using a Dropship or Bulk Lander token.

### Torpedoes

_Torpedoes are very large, ship-killing missiles that are much more dangerous than the types ordinarily categorised as Close Action weapons. Torpedoes are heavily armoured and well protected against opposing Point Defences with decoys and jamming to ensure they will get close enough to the target to deliver a potentially devastating hit_.

The relatively slow acceleration of Torpedoes means they **never attack enemy ships immediately even if the target is within their Thrust range,** instead place the Torpedo in contact with the target and execute the attack at the **end of the target’s next activation**.

**Torpedoes make an attack with their profile when arriving at an enemy ship. Point Defence has no effect against damage inflicted by Torpedoes**.

When firing Torpedoes at a Space Station, resolve the effects immediately.

## Manoeuvre

A ship which activates when it has Launch Assets in contact with its base can use hard manoeuvring to try and  shake off  the Launch Assets and spoil their attack run. If the ship uses **Course Change or Max Thrust** special orders roll a D6 for each enemy Launch Asset targeting the ship. On a roll of 5+ the Launch Asset

is shaken off and removed. On a roll of 1-4 the Launch Asset doggedly pursues and takes effect at the end of the target’s activation as normal.

### Outmanoeuvring Torpedoes

Torpedoes are relentless in their pursuit of a target and not so easy to shake off. Only remove a Torpedo marker if a 6 is rolled, on a 5 the Torpedo does not attack this turn but instead remains in contact with the target ship’s base ready to attack again after the target’s **next** activation. On a 1-4 the Torpedo attacks at the end of the activation as normal.

#### Bombers stats

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Type</th>
      <th>Thrust</th>
      <th>Lock</th>
      <th>Attack</th>
      <th>Damage</th>
      <th>Special</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>UCM</td>
      <td>12&quot;</td>
      <td>3+</td>
      <td>2</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Scourge</td>
      <td>15&quot;</td>
      <td>3+</td>
      <td>2</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>Scald</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>PHR</td>
      <td>12&quot;</td>
      <td>2+</td>
      <td>2</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Shaltari</td>
      <td>15&quot;</td>
      <td>3+</td>
      <td>2</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Resistance</td>
      <td>12&quot;</td>
      <td>4+</td>
      <td>3</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### Torpedoes stats

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Type</th>
      <th>Thrust</th>
      <th>Lock</th>
      <th>Attack</th>
      <th>Damage</th>
      <th>Special</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>UCM</td>
      <td>9&quot;</td>
      <td>2+</td>
      <td>4</td>
      <td>2</td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Scourge</td>
      <td>9&quot;</td>
      <td>3+</td>
      <td>3</td>
      <td>2</td>
      <td>Corruptor</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>PHR</td>
      <td>9&quot;</td>
      <td>2+</td>
      <td>4</td>
      <td>2</td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Shaltari</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Resistance</td>
      <td>12&quot;</td>
      <td>2+</td>
      <td>6</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### Fighters stats

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Type</th>
      <th>Thrust</th>
      <th>PD Bonus</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>UCM</td>
      <td>20&quot;</td>
      <td>+3</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Scourge</td>
      <td>24&quot;</td>
      <td>+3</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>PHR</td>
      <td>20&quot;</td>
      <td>+4</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Shaltari</td>
      <td>24&quot;</td>
      <td>+4</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Resistance</td>
      <td>20&quot;</td>
      <td>+5</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### Dropships/Bulk Landers stats

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Type</th>
      <th>Thrust</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>UCM</td>
      <td>3&quot; / 6&quot;</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Scourge</td>
      <td>3&quot; / 6&quot;</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>PHR</td>
      <td>3&quot; / 6&quot;</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Shaltari</td>
      <td>3&quot; / 6&quot;</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Resistance</td>
      <td>3&quot; / 6&quot;</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Commit message:

docs: :memo: unify info and example bubbles

dfc/core-rules/launch-assets.md, after:

---
title: 'Launch Assets'
excerpt: 'Ships may carry smaller subordinate craft on board in the form of strike craft like Dropships, Fighters and Bombers or munitions - ship-killing Torpedoes and similar systems.'
position: 9
---

# Launch Assets

Ships may carry smaller subordinate craft on board in the form of strike craft like Dropships, Fighters and Bombers or munitions - ship-killing Torpedoes and similar systems. Collectively these are called **Launch Assets** in Dropfleet and they all operate using the same game rules. Launch Assets are represented by tokens on the tabletop - either flat counters or bases with teeny tiny models on them.

An individual Launch Asset token represents a flight of Fighters/Bombers or a group of Torpedoes. Standard sizes for Strike Craft and munitions markers are the 20mm x 20mm tokens supplied. Note that Dropships and Bulk Landers do not have tokens as they resolve instantly and do not spend any time on the table.

In the rules that follow all models that can deploy Launch Assets are referred to as ’carriers’. A carrier will most likely be a ship in practice, but it could be a ground- based airfield, orbital dock or other launch facility. In such cases these are still counted as  carriers  for rules purposes when it comes to Launch Assets.

## Carrier Characteristics

Each Carrier has characteristics for its Launch Capability. An example of which is below:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Load</th>
      <th>Launch</th>
      <th>Special</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Torpedoes</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Fighters &amp; Bombers</td>
      <td>6</td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

* **Load:** The type of launch assets the carrier can use. There may be a choice of different types but the carrier is still limited by its overall capacity and launch ability.
* **Launch:** How many tokens the carrier can launch in one turn.

## Launch Asset Characteristics

Launch Assets often  work similarly to a weapon profile, although some have their own unique rules. Some examples are shown below.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Type</th>
      <th>Thrust</th>
      <th>Lock</th>
      <th>Attack</th>
      <th>Damage</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>UCM Bomber</td>
      <td>12&quot;</td>
      <td>3+</td>
      <td>2</td>
      <td>1</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>UCM Torpedo</td>
      <td>9&quot;</td>
      <td>2+</td>
      <td>6</td>
      <td>1</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Type</th>
      <th>Thrust</th>
      <th>Point Defence Bonus</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>UCM Fighter</td>
      <td>20&quot;</td>
      <td>+3</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>UCM Dropship</td>
      <td>3&quot;</td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

* **Thrust:** The maximum distance it can travel to reach its target in a single phase.
* **Lock, Attack, Damage & Special:** All function identically to weapon system characteristics.
* **Point Defence Bonus:** Extra PD added to a ship these are used on.

## Launching Assets

Carriers have the opportunity to use their Launch Assets during the Roundup phase after Ground Combat has been resolved.

Use the same Initiative values determined in the Ground Combat segment. Use the same rules for determining them if you have not done so already.

Each turn players should complete each stage below in order of Initiative before moving onto the next phase.

This step is always resolved in the following order:

1. **Torpedoes**
1. **Bombers & Fire Ships**
1. **Fighters**
1. **Dropships & Bulk Landers**

The player with the lowest Initiative selects a Group with which to launch. They place all tokens they wish to launch from this Group next to the ship(s) or Sectors they are targeting.

Much like Close Action weapons, Launch Assets do not count against the number of weapon systems the ship may fire during a turn due to special orders, but likewise **if the carrier can’t fire for any reason it cannot use Launch Assets**.

Once the tokens are placed, the player with the next lowest Initiative may choose to launch those assets from a Group that has not launched yet this turn.

Repeat this until every player has launched that asset, then move onto the next asset type.

**A ship that launches any Launch Assets gains a Minor Spike**.

::: info _Note: If you choose to activate a Ship Group it must launch something, you may not choose not to launch anything as a way to make your opponent reveal their plans!_
:::

### Time To Target

Launch Assets have to travel to their target and may even have to spend some time hunting for it, space is big, they are small and their sensor gear is limited in comparison to that of a ship. The time to target depends on the range from the launching carrier to the target:

* If the target is **within the asset’s Thrust** it’s a quick sprint and the Launch Asset takes effect this turn.
* If the target is **more than its Thrust but within double its Thrust** a longer journey is necessary and there is a slight delay before the launch assets arrive. Place the launch assets in contact with the target’s base (or with each other if there is no more room left around the base), they will take effect at the end of the target’s activation in the next game turn. **Dropships and Bulk Landers cannot use this option, and must launch to a target within their Thrust**.

Note that Launch Assets can be used against targets that are outside the normal Scan + Signature range, simply measure a straight line between the launching ship and its target. If that line would take them through a Debris Field, they must test to see if they are destroyed. Roll once for each Launch Asset each time it moves through a Debris Field. A Fine Debris Field removes Launch Assets on a 3+ and a Dense Debris Field removes Launch Assets on a 5+.

### Launch Assets in Orbital Combat

Launch Assets are limited to operating in certain Orbital Layers. The configuration and design specifications required for operating in atmosphere are very different to those needed in high orbit. As such the following limitations apply:

* **Dropships:** May operate in Atmosphere only or Low Orbit if they are launching against a Space Station within 3".
* **Bulk Landers:** May operate in Atmosphere and Low Orbit only.
* **All other Launch Assets:** May operate in Low and High Orbit only. Other Launch Assets originating from surface-based carriers deploy into and operate in Low and High Orbit only.

If a ship with Launch Assets in contact with it enters Atmosphere, the Launch Assets are removed from play as they either burn up or return to their carrier.

## Launch Asset Effects

Once all the Groups containing Launch Assets have deployed their assets, you must then resolve their effects.

Firstly, place any ground tokens from Dropships and Bulk Landers. Next, starting with the player with the highest Initiative, select 1 enemy ship to resolve the effects of any tokens against it. Then the player with the next highest Initiative selects 1 enemy ship to resolve and so on until all the of the launch asset tokens have been resolved.

Launch assets generally function like a special kind of weapon system, but because of their unique properties there’s some special rules that apply to them.

The effects of a Launch Asset depend on its type and what it’s in contact with.

**Once a launch asset has taken effect the token is removed immediately**.

### Fighters

::: tip _Fighters are lightweight, agile craft intended as dedicated interceptors of opposing Strike Craft and Close Action weapons. Fighters serve an interceptor role for ships by flying in close support and improving a friendly unit’s Point Defence_.
:::

Fighters lack the firepower necessary to make a dent on larger enemies so in Dropfleet they are limited to a purely defensive role.

Fighter tokens can take effect at various times throughout the game.

**Fighters may take effect from when they are placed onwards, even if launched using twice their thrust range**.

Fighters can be launched against friendly or enemy ships, and their rules change depending on their target:

**Friendly Ships:** Add bonus dice to their PD characteristic against a single attack from Launch Assets or Close Action weapons. The owning player must decide whether or not to expend the fighters against an attack once the damage is known but before PD dice are rolled. If the protected unit moves the fighter marker is moved with it.

Once the Fighter marker has taken effect it returns to its carrier and is removed from play. Any Fighters which have not taken effect by the following Roundup Phase are removed as they are forced to fly back and refuel.

::: info _For example: 4 UCM Fighters are launched to protect a friendly target. The target gains +12 PD and the Fighters stay with it until the owning player chooses to use the Fighters to supplement its Point Defence against an attack from Launch Assets or Close Action weapons. The owning player can choose to add some, all or none of the escorting Fighter markers to its defence when attacked, gaining +3PD for each_.
:::

**Enemy Ships:** Remove one enemy Fighter token from this ship (they keep each other occupied in dogfighting!) This may only be done when resolving launch asset effects (during the roundup phase) just before Bombers take effect.

### Bombers

::: tip _Bombers are Strike Craft that carry serious ship-killing weaponry, typically deploying a mixture of stand-off missiles and one-shot, high-intensity energy weapons_.
:::

**Bombers make an attack with their profile when arriving at an enemy ship**.

When Bombers from multiple sources attack the same target they coordinate their run to overwhelm its Point Defence. Roll all of the Bomber’s attacks together when they take effect and treat it as a single attack versus the target’s Point Defence so the defender only rolls for  PD once for the ship instead of against each token’s attack separately.

::: info _For example: 6 Bomber tokens launched from 2 carriers attack an enemy ship together. Each Bomber makes 2 attacks normally, but in this case they make a coordinated attack and roll all 12 attacks at once. The enemy ship’s Point Defence will only roll once against the massed attack instead of separately against each Bomber_.
:::

### Fire Ships

Fire Ships are a unique type of bomber. They follow all the same rules, but are resolved separately. They also coordinate their attack.

### Dropships

::: tip _Dropships are transporters used for rapidly deploying armoured forces down to a planet’s surface. They are agile, well armoured and armed for their size to weather the storm of defensive fire they invariably attract_.
:::

**Dropships may only be launched by carriers that are in Atmosphere or Low Orbit if targeting a Space Station**.

**Dropships may target Ground Sectors or Space Stations within their Thrust**.

When they do, they deliver one Armour or Infantry token to the Sector or Space Station.

### Bulk lander

::: tip _Bulk landers are large, lightly armoured landing craft used by troopships to deploy large numbers of ground troops or anti-ship weapon emplacements. Bulk Landers are considerably slower and more vulnerable than Dropships, as they are not designed for 1st wave assaults on entrenched positions, but rather as occupying or reinforcing troops once a beachhead is secured_.
:::

**Bulk landers may only be launched by carriers that are in Low Orbit or Atmosphere**.

**Bulk Landers may target Ground Sectors or Space Stations within their Thrust**. When they do, they deliver three  Infantry tokens or one Defence Battery token to the Sector or Space Station.

### A Note on Dropships & Bulk Landers

Since there is no actual game time between the deployment and landing of the Dropship or Bulk Lander tokens there is no need to physically place them.

For speed of play and ease of use, most players will find it easier to declare where they are deploying troops, resolve any ground fire from Batteries and then directly place the Infantry or Armour tokens without using a Dropship or Bulk Lander token.

### Torpedoes

::: tip _Torpedoes are very large, ship-killing missiles that are much more dangerous than the types ordinarily categorised as Close Action weapons. Torpedoes are heavily armoured and well protected against opposing Point Defences with decoys and jamming to ensure they will get close enough to the target to deliver a potentially devastating hit_.
:::

The relatively slow acceleration of Torpedoes means they **never attack enemy ships immediately even if the target is within their Thrust range,** instead place the Torpedo in contact with the target and execute the attack at the **end of the target’s next activation**.

**Torpedoes make an attack with their profile when arriving at an enemy ship. Point Defence has no effect against damage inflicted by Torpedoes**.

When firing Torpedoes at a Space Station, resolve the effects immediately.

## Manoeuvre

A ship which activates when it has Launch Assets in contact with its base can use hard manoeuvring to try and  shake off  the Launch Assets and spoil their attack run. If the ship uses **Course Change or Max Thrust** special orders roll a D6 for each enemy Launch Asset targeting the ship. On a roll of 5+ the Launch Asset

is shaken off and removed. On a roll of 1-4 the Launch Asset doggedly pursues and takes effect at the end of the target’s activation as normal.

### Outmanoeuvring Torpedoes

Torpedoes are relentless in their pursuit of a target and not so easy to shake off. Only remove a Torpedo marker if a 6 is rolled, on a 5 the Torpedo does not attack this turn but instead remains in contact with the target ship’s base ready to attack again after the target’s **next** activation. On a 1-4 the Torpedo attacks at the end of the activation as normal.

#### Bombers stats

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Type</th>
      <th>Thrust</th>
      <th>Lock</th>
      <th>Attack</th>
      <th>Damage</th>
      <th>Special</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>UCM</td>
      <td>12&quot;</td>
      <td>3+</td>
      <td>2</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Scourge</td>
      <td>15&quot;</td>
      <td>3+</td>
      <td>2</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>Scald</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>PHR</td>
      <td>12&quot;</td>
      <td>2+</td>
      <td>2</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Shaltari</td>
      <td>15&quot;</td>
      <td>3+</td>
      <td>2</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Resistance</td>
      <td>12&quot;</td>
      <td>4+</td>
      <td>3</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### Torpedoes stats

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Type</th>
      <th>Thrust</th>
      <th>Lock</th>
      <th>Attack</th>
      <th>Damage</th>
      <th>Special</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>UCM</td>
      <td>9&quot;</td>
      <td>2+</td>
      <td>4</td>
      <td>2</td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Scourge</td>
      <td>9&quot;</td>
      <td>3+</td>
      <td>3</td>
      <td>2</td>
      <td>Corruptor</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>PHR</td>
      <td>9&quot;</td>
      <td>2+</td>
      <td>4</td>
      <td>2</td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Shaltari</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Resistance</td>
      <td>12&quot;</td>
      <td>2+</td>
      <td>6</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>-</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### Fighters stats

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Type</th>
      <th>Thrust</th>
      <th>PD Bonus</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>UCM</td>
      <td>20&quot;</td>
      <td>+3</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Scourge</td>
      <td>24&quot;</td>
      <td>+3</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>PHR</td>
      <td>20&quot;</td>
      <td>+4</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Shaltari</td>
      <td>24&quot;</td>
      <td>+4</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Resistance</td>
      <td>20&quot;</td>
      <td>+5</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### Dropships/Bulk Landers stats

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Type</th>
      <th>Thrust</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>UCM</td>
      <td>3&quot; / 6&quot;</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Scourge</td>
      <td>3&quot; / 6&quot;</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>PHR</td>
      <td>3&quot; / 6&quot;</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Shaltari</td>
      <td>3&quot; / 6&quot;</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Resistance</td>
      <td>3&quot; / 6&quot;</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
